---
title: How To Get An Instant Pay Raise
---

OK, that title was a little "clickbaity-y".  But, bare with me.  Over the course of my professional career, I would often say things like "If I got a raise, life would be easier/better/etc...".  However, when that raise did come, I would find myself pondering that same statement months later. This is the rat race that most of us typically find ourselves living in.

Recently (within the past two years), I have found a few ways to escape this feel and I have never felt more wealth in my entire life.  All while spending less than I did years ago (although I make more money now).  

## Dollar Tracking

I have heard Tim Ferris say over and over "What gets measured gets minded".  Or some form of that.  As will most things in life, if we are not mindful of how we are spending our money, it can easily get out of control. I felt like I was $60-ing myself to death.  At one point, I decided to start tracking things and realized just how much money I was bleeding on nonsense.

While there are a ton of budget trackers out there, I highly recommend [Every Dollar](https://www.everydollar.com).  This is Dave Ramsey's budgeting tool and it's free.  To me, it seems counterintuitive to spend money on a budget tool :)

## Minimalism

I have been spending quite a bit of time lately studying and learning about minimalism.  And for me it boils down to a few key principles:

- Remove clutter
- Stop buying _crap_

Now, whenever I make a purchase it's incredibly intentional.  No longer do I purchase something just because it's "on sale" or "I might need it".  

## Giving

This is probably the most important item in the list.  Giving away money (Church, 
