---
title: How Much Will It Cost: Top 3 Mistakes Developers Make When Bidding Projects
---

It's probably the first question you are asked when discussing a new client project.  *How much will it cost?*  As sofware developers, we understand that this is an incredibly challenging question to answer, especially upon the first few interactions with the client.

Here are the top 3 mistakes I believe developers often make when scoping projects and giving rates/costs.

##1. Firmly sticking to a certain rate

I was guilty of this.  You read way too much Hacker News about everyone talking about how much they are worth. That they upped their rates and are actually turning down projects, etc... While this makes a great blog post headline, it's usually not how the real world works. 

When I first started out, I was certain that every project I worked on was worth $150/hour no matter what.  This made it extremely difficult to find some early projects and stay afloat early on.  

Once I realized that it was OK to compramise on my rate, it was then that I started really selling contracts.

Some variables that affect rate:

- **Size of client**: Is it a startup, individual, Fortune 500, something in between. Some clients can pay more, some can pay less
- **Duration of project**: I will usually give a discount for more sustainable work. After all, the longer I'm on a project, the less time I'm spending selling and not getting paid for my time.
- **Technologies of the project**: This is an interesting one.  If the client wants something in their project that myself or my team are not immediatly familar with, I will sometimes apply a discount given the learning curve.
- **Portfolio Client**: At times, I will give a discount simply because I want a certain client's logo on my website as a client.  I look at the lost revenue as a marketing investment.

##2. Underbidding a Project Out of Desparation

I get it, we have all been there.  You just came off a project with no new prospects in sight.  The only foreseeable work is the random dude down the road who wants an Instagram clone for $5K.

It seems tempting to take this work and in some instances necessary, but I would urge you to rethink your overall goals and whether or not you actually want to work for this type of client.

Clients who expect something for nothing _typically_ end up being some of the most difficult and needy people to deal with.  They don't quite understand the value of the software development process and the service you are providing for them.

You will end up with a few different challenges:

- Not making any money
- Calls in the middle of the night/weekends
- Lack of forgiveness due to bugs
- Most likely to scope creep
- Expecting the success of the app to fall on you

So, my advice to you is spend a little extra time finding the right project and plan ahead before you get to this point of depsparation.

##3. Not Gathering All Of the Requirements

This is probably the worst of all three.  Not gathering enough requirements on a fixed-price contract can not only cause you to not make much money, but you could end up paying out money to work on a client contract.

I have had this happen on more than one occasion.  My team was tasked to clone an already exisitng app for a higher profile client in Albuquerque.  The app was simple enough from the outside and our designs made it very simple to scope.

However, trouble came about once we started digging in to how the app would source data.  We just assumed an API was in place, however we found out after the fact that there was a mix of API, CSVs, manual input, and even page scraping that needed to be done in order to adequatly reprepsent the data in the app.

After all was said and done, this app **cost me** $20K to build.  Lesson learned.

In a future post, I will have more info on ways to best gather requirements for a cleint project.  For now, make sure you get **everything** in writing.  Don't worry about being _too_ verbose when writing up the scope.

## Final Thoughts

There are countless of other mistakes often made when bidding projects.  Believe me, I have probably made all of them.  These represent the top 3 that amount for the most loss in profits for me.

I hope you can learn from my mistakes and use this post as a reference when you plan to bid future work.

Until next time...





