---
title: Keeping Your Pipeline Thick By Partnering With Agencies
permalink: /agencies
---

Man, aren't you sick of the hustle? Constantly cold calling people, chasing down leads, using a CRM? Don't you wish that there was a way you could just focus on what you are actually good at and passionate about: **writing code**? OK, this post is starting to sound _way_ too gimmicky, but there is a point.

The fact is, **I HATE SALES**.  I hate all the sales in the whole world.  I especially hate being sold which makes me an even worse salesman.

One interesting way around actually doing sales is to actually have someone else do them for you. What do you mean Brandon? I'll tell you.  Partnering with agencies.  

Very often times agencies (especially marketing agencies) will get approached with software project that they are not fully staffed for. Usually, these projects are tangential to task they were hired for.  Either they lack the in-house technical expertise or they are simply not focused on software and need additional help. 

Some examples that I have seen/worked on:

- Waiver form for bouncy house
- Branded survey
- Temporary promo website
- Data collection server
- Festival promo apps

I have seen and worked on many permutations of the above.

**How to start**

I would start by identifying all of the agencies/consultancies in your area.  Find out what they specialize in and then offer to fill the gaps based on your expertise.  That way, when the marketing agency is asked about a survey app, game, promo website, etc... they will lean on you to fulfill.  

Start building a working relationship with people in each group. At the very least, try to set up a meeting with the decision makers so that you can get a chance to discuss your capabilities.  Usually, I keep these meetings SUPER casual (did I mention I hate being Sold), so it's less of a sales pitch and more of a chat about business in general.

Partnering with enough of these types of pipeline partners will keep yours thick perpetually without you having to do a day of sales. 

There is one downside however.  In my case I had to be flexible on rates. Sometimes they can pay your full rate because ad agencies charge a metric crap-ton for their services. But other times, you have to be willing to bend a little bit.  Which is fine since you weren't the one bringing in the sale. Let them collect some margin in exchange for the work they are just handing off to you.

Hopefully this is just another tool you can add to your sales repertoire and you found some value in this posts. I'd love to hear your feedback. Shoot me a mail brandon [at] brandontreb.com. 